Day 1:
Doctype helps the browser to know what kind of language this is. SO browser dosesnot have to judge by the source code. Good practice to add it.
Information inside the head is for triggering some kind of logic in the browser.
Body is the view port of the browser. Place where contents of the website are rendered. 
Character set - usually used utf-8 - text, symbols, emojis , ascii, unicode - for many languages.
mdn - good source for learning about html.
HTML is used to demarcate the page into different sections. 
blocked elements use block spaces. dont need a seperate horizontal strip. 
X-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x--x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-X
Day 2:
anchors: for referencing sections of the page or external links.
Frames: 
Loading content from other pages. Youtube videos, etc.
iframes are inline can be aligned one after another.
iframes can be given names which can be used as a target for opening links in the frame instead of same or another tab.
For security reasons some websites dont open in iframes. Such website can be opened by using the target as parent.
Top can be used for a deeply nested iframe.
Opening the same file containing iframes in the iframe will recursively open it once.
browsers have prevention against recursion of iframes.
Iframes reduce the performance of the webpage. Equal to opening a new tab. Costly operation.
Media Elements:
alt can be used in the case the image is not displaying or for visually impaired people to read the text for the image.
setting height and width disturbs the aspect ratio. try to set one instead of 2. Use css.
for video controls add the control tag.
preload, video (even the metadata) is not loaded till the video is not played by the user. 
audio autoplay without controls can be stoped only by muting the speakers, which is why the browsers included the block audio
Form Elements:
Radio buttons should have same names to work.
Day 3:
Selectors:
type (div,p,etc.) class, id
[] for inside properties of selectors.
Combinators:
4 kinds usually used:- 
+just below the tag ex- h2 + p : paragraph immwdiately after the h2.
~ general sibbling combinator : every selector after that. 
Html is read top to bottom : sibblings work for younger sibblings only.
> - selec just inside the sibbling get the css. only id directly inside sibbling.
Pseudo selectors : 
active state :- when mouse is hovered and clicked.
focus : cursor is in that element.
Day 4:
Id is for one is to one mapping 
class is for many to many mapping.
if a body is given some style. Inner tags won't get that tag.
any style added to particular class is over rides the * styles.
id > class > element > * (Precedence)
If we repeat the same property again then the first property gets overwritten.
inline styling precedes over any other applied style.
span is inline div is block.
Div simply converts to block for grouping. Similarly span is inline for grouping. 
Margin area gets the color from parent element
Padding gets its own color
outer element is like a road. Margin is a part which belong to the outer road where the cars cannot go.
Border is like a wall. Padding is like your lawn accross the wall. Then your house.
if no space is left after giving border. the content is overlayed. 
Since html elements are read from top to bottom the outer elements always get their space.
m is the widest char in alphabet. the size of m character in broswer font size is 1em.
vh - change accroding to the browser height.(1/100 of window height.
Monspace takes same width for every character.
use t-family for a font fallback channel. 